[Congressional Bills 103th Congress] [From the U.S. Government Publishing Office] [H.R. 4593 Introduced in House (IH)] 103d CONGRESS 2d Session H. R. 4593 Entitlement Control Act of 1994. _______________________________________________________________________ IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES June 16, 1994 Mr. Stenholm (for himself, Mr. Penny, Mr. Deal, Mr. LaRocco, and Mr. Orton) introduced the following bill; which was referred jointly to the Committees on Government Operations and Rules _______________________________________________________________________  A BILL Entitlement Control Act of 1994. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS. (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Entitlement Control Act of 1994''. (b) Table of Contents.-- Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents. Sec. 2. Purpose. Sec. 3. Definitions and treatments. Sec. 4. Establishment of direct spending targets. Sec. 5. Special direct spending message by President. Sec. 6. Congressional action required. Sec. 7. Spin-off law. Sec. 8. Targeted sequestration. Sec. 9. Comprehensive sequestration. Sec. 10. Exempt programs and activities. Sec. 11. General and special sequestration rules. Sec. 12. Estimating assumptions, reports, and orders. Sec. 13. The current policy baseline. Sec. 14. Relationship to pay-as-you-go. Sec. 15. Judicial review. Sec. 16. Application. Sec. 17. Effective date. SEC. 2. PURPOSE. The purpose of this Act is to create a mechanism to control spending on mandatory programs and to increase accountability for mandatory spending. SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS AND TREATMENTS. As used in this Act: (1) The terms ``budget authority'', ``new budget authority'', ``entitlement authority'', ``outlays'', and ``deficit'' have the meanings given to such terms in section 3 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974. (2) The term ``account'' means an item for which there is a designated budget account identification code number in the President's budget. (3) The term ``budget year'' means, with respect to a session of Congress, the fiscal year of the Government that  starts on October 1 of the calendar year in which that session begins. (4) The term ``budget-year session'' means any session of Congress that starts in the calendar year in which that budget year starts. (5) The term ``CBO'' means the Director of the Congressional Budget Office. (6) The term ``current policy baseline'' means the projection (described in section 13) of current-year levels of new budget authority and outlays into the budget year and the outyears. (7) The term ``current year'' means the fiscal year that immediately precedes a budget year. (8) The term ``deposit insurance'' refers to the expenses of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the funds it incorporates, the Resolution Trust Corporation, the National  Credit Union Administration and the funds it incorporates, the Office of Thrift Supervision; the Comptroller of the Currency Assessment Funds, the RTC Office of the Inspector General, and the deposit insurance activities of the Federal Reserve. (9) The term ``direct spending'' means-- (A) budget authority provided by law other than appropriation Acts; (B) entitlement authority; and (C) the food stamp program.  If a law other than an appropriation Act alters the level of discretionary appropriations, that effect shall be treated as direct spending. If an Appropriations Act alters the level of direct spending, that effect shall be treated as discretionary spending. (10) The term ``legislative day'' means, with respect to either House of Congress, any day of session. (11) The term ``OMB'' means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. (12) The term ``outyear'' means any of the 4 fiscal years that follow a budget year. (13) The terms ``sequester'' and ``sequestration'' mean the cancellation under section 8 or 9 of direct spending authority. SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF DIRECT SPENDING TARGETS. (a) Coverage.--The direct spending targets shall apply to all direct spending programs within the Federal budget except for net interest and deposit insurance. (b) Initial Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, OMB shall submit a report to Congress setting forth the direct spending targets for each of fiscal years 1995 through 2000 in accordance with this section. (c) Determining Direct Spending Limits.--In calculating the direct spending targets, OMB shall-- (1) calculate the projected level of direct spending outlays for fiscal year 1995; (2) calculate the increase in the direct spending targets for each subsequent fiscal year through fiscal year 2000 to allow growth in direct spending outlays to reflect-- (A) changes in the Consumer Price Index; (B) changes in the number of beneficiaries under direct spending programs for which the number of beneficiaries is a variable in determining costs; and (C) an additional growth allowance of--  (i) 1 percent in 1996; (ii) 1 percent in 1997; and (iii) 1 percent in 1998; (d) Adjustment for Health Care Reform.--OMB shall calculate adjustments to the direct spending targets to reflect any increase in direct spending resulting from health care reform legislation, enacted into law by December 31, 1994, if such legislation would not increase the total deficit for the period of fiscal years 1995 through 1999. (e) Annual Adjustments.--When the President submits a budget under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for a fiscal year, OMB shall calculate adjustments to the direct spending targets to reflect the following: (1) Changes in inflation projections from the Director's initial report under section 4(b). (2) Changes in projections of the number of beneficiaries from the Director's initial report under section 4(b). (3) The costs of direct spending legislation to the extent that it is offset by revenue increases or designated as an emergency by Congress and the President under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985. (4) Legislation reducing direct spending to the extent that it offsets the deficit impact of a tax cut under section 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985. SEC. 5. SPECIAL DIRECT SPENDING MESSAGE BY PRESIDENT. (a) Special Message.--If the OMB sequestration preview report submitted under section 12(e) indicates that direct spending for the budget year or any outyear will exceed the applicable direct spending target, the budget submitted under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, shall include a special direct spending message that includes proposed legislative changes to offset the net deficit impact of the excess identified by that OMB sequestration preview report for each such year through any combination of: (1) Reductions in direct spending outlays. (2) Increases in the direct spending targets, if the President has submitted a written determination that, because of economic or programmatic reasons, only some or none of the excess should be offset. (b) Introduction of President's Package.--Within 10 days after the President submitted a special direct spending message, the text referred to in subsection (a) shall be introduced as a concurrent resolution in the House of Representatives by the chairman of its Committee on the Budget and in the Senate by the chairman of its Committee on the Budget. If the chairman fails to do so, after the 10th day the resolution may be introduced by any Member of the House of Representatives or the Senate, as the case may be. A concurrent resolution introduced under this subsection shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives or the Senate, as the case may be. SEC. 6. CONGRESSIONAL ACTION REQUIRED. (a) In General.--The requirements of this section shall be in effect for any year in which the OMB sequestration preview report submitted under section 12(e) indicates that direct spending for the budget year or any outyear will exceed the applicable direct spending target. (b) Requirements for Special Budget Resolution in the House.--The Committee on the Budget in the House shall report not later than March 15 a concurrent resolution, either as a separate section of the concurrent resolution on the budget reported pursuant to section 301 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 or as a separate resolution, that includes reconciliation instructions instructing the appropriate committees of the House and Senate to report changes in laws within their jurisdiction to offset any excess in direct spending identified in the OMB sequestration preview report submitted under section 12(e) as follows: (1) Reductions in direct spending programs. (2) Increases in the direct spending targets, except that any increase in those targets may not be greater than the increase included in the special reconciliation message submitted by the President. (c) Procedure If House Budget Committee Fails To Report Required Resolution.-- (1) Automatic discharge of house budget committee.--In the event that the House Committee on the Budget fails to report a resolution meeting the requirements of subsection (b), the committee shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of the concurrent resolution reflecting the President's recommendations introduced pursuant to section 5(b), and the concurrent resolution shall be placed on the appropriate calendar. (2) Consideration by house of discharged resolution.--Ten days after the House Committee on the Budget has been discharged under paragraph (1), any member may move that the House proceed to consider the resolution. Such motion shall be highly privileged and not debatable. It shall not be in order to consider any amendment to the resolution except amendments which are germane and which do not change the net deficit impact of the resolution. Consideration of such resolution shall be pursuant to the procedures set forth in section 305 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and subsection (d). (d) Consideration by the House of Representatives.--(1) It shall not be in order in the House of Representatives to consider a concurrent resolution on the budget unless that concurrent resolution fully addresses the entirety of any excess of the direct spending targets as identified in the OMB sequestration preview report submitted under section 12(e) through reconciliation instructions requiring spending reductions, or changes in the direct spending targets. (2) If the concurrent resolution on the budget proposes to eliminate or offset less than the entire excess for budget year and any subsequent fiscal years, then the Committee on the Budget shall report a separate resolution directing the Committee on Government Operations to report legislation increasing the direct spending targets for each applicable year by the full amount of the excess not offset or eliminated. It shall not be in order to consider any concurrent resolution on the budget that does not offset the full amount of the excess until the House of Representatives has agreed to the resolution directing the increase in the direct spending targets. (e) Transmittal to Senate.--If a concurrent resolution passes the House pursuant to subsection (d), the Clerk of the House of Representatives shall cause the resolution to be engrossed, certified, and transmitted to the Senate within one calendar day of the day on which the resolution is passed. The resolution shall be referred to the Senate Committee on the Budget. (f) Requirements for Special Budget Resolution in the Senate.--The Committee on the Budget in the Senate shall report not later than April 1 a concurrent resolution, either as a separate section of a budget resolution reported pursuant to section 301 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 or as a separate resolution, that shall include reconciliation instructions instructing the appropriate committees of the House and Senate to report changes in laws within their jurisdiction to offset any excess through any combination of: (1) Reductions in direct spending programs. (2) Increases in the direct spending targets, except that any increase in those targets may not be greater than the increase included in the special reconciliation message submitted by the President. (g) Procedure If Senate Budget Committee Fails To Report Required Resolution.-- (1) Automatic discharge of senate budget committee.--In the event that the Senate Committee on the Budget fails to report a resolution meeting the requirements of subsection (f), the committee shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of the concurrent resolution reflecting the President's recommendations introduced pursuant to section 5(b), and the concurrent resolution shall be placed on the appropriate calendar. (2) Consideration by senate of discharged resolution.--Ten days after the Senate Committee on the Budget has been discharged under paragraph (1), any member may move that the Senate proceed to consider the resolution. Such motion shall be privileged and not debatable. Consideration of such resolution shall be pursuant to the procedures set forth in section 305 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 and subsection (h). (h) Consideration by Senate.--(1) It shall not be in order in the Senate to consider a concurrent resolution on the budget unless that concurrent resolution fully addresses the entirety of any excess of the direct spending targets as identified in the OMB sequestration report submitted under section 12(e) through reconciliation instructions requiring direct spending reductions, or changes in the direct spending targets. (2) If the concurrent resolution on the budget proposes to eliminate or offset less than the entire overage of a budget year, then the Committee on the Budget shall report a resolution increasing the direct spending target by the full amount of the overage not eliminated. It shall not be in order to consider any concurrent resolution on the budget that does not offset the entire amount of the overage until the Senate has agreed to the resolution directing the increase in the direct spending targets. (i) Conference Reports Must Fully Address Overage.--It shall not be in order in the House of Representatives or the Senate to consider a conference report on a concurrent resolution on the budget unless that conference report fully addresses the entirety of any excess identified by the OMB sequestration preview report submitted pursuant to section 12(e) through reconciliation instructions requiring direct spending reductions, or changes in the direct spending targets. (j) Waivers.--The points of order established by subsection (d)(1), (h)(1), or (i) may be waived or suspended--  (1) in the House of Representatives only by a resolution devoted solely to the subject of waiving that point of order, or (2) in the Senate only by an affirmative vote of three- fifths of the Members duly chosen and sworn. SEC. 7. SPIN-OFF LEGISLATION. (a) Allocations of Direct Spending.--The joint explanatory statement accompanying a conference report on a concurrent resolution on the budget shall include an estimated allocation based upon such concurrent resolution as recommended in such conference report, of the appropriate levels of direct spending budget authority and outlays for each major functional category. (b) Introduction of Spin-Off Legislation.--On the third legislative day after adoption of a concurrent resolution on the budget, the chairman of the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives or the Senate, as the case may be, shall introduce legislation specifying the budget year amount of direct spending allowed by budget functional categories, based on the allocations set forth in the joint explanatory statement accompanying the conference report on such concurrent resolution. The total amount of direct spending under such legislation may not exceed the target set forth for that fiscal year by section 4 unless Congress has adopted a resolution directing an increase in the direct spending targets. Legislation introduced under this subsection shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget. (c) Procedure in House of Representatives.-- (1) Automatic discharge of house budget committee.--In the event that the House Budget Committee fails to report legislation introduced pursuant to subsection (b) within 7 legislative days of the introduction of the bill in the House, the committee shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of such legislation. (2) Consideration by house of spin-off legislation.--Three legislative days after the House Budget Committee has reported spin-off legislation described in subsection (b) or has been discharged under paragraph (1), it shall be in order to move that the House proceed to consider the legislation. Such motion shall be highly privileged and not debatable. (3) Debate in house.--General debate on any spin-off legislation in the House of Representatives shall be limited to not more than 5 hours, which shall be divided equally between the majority and minority parties. A motion to further limit debate shall not be in order. It shall not be in order to consider any amendments which would cause the total amount of direct spending under the spin-off legislation to exceed the target set forth for the fiscal year under section 4. (4) House consideration of conference report.--Debate in the House of Representatives on the conference report on spin-  off legislation shall be limited to not more than 1 hour, which shall be divided equally between the majority and minority parties. A motion to further limit debate is not debatable. A motion to recommit the conference report is not in order, and it is not in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the conference report is agreed to or disagreed to. (d) Procedure in the Senate.-- (1) Automatic discharge of senate budget committee.--In the event that the Senate Budget Committee fails to report legislation described in subsection (b), the committee shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of such  legislation. (2) Consideration by senate of spin-off legislation.--Three days after the Senate Budget Committee has reported spin-off legislation described in subsection (b) or has been discharged under paragraph (1), it shall be in order to move that the Senate proceed to consider the legislation. Such motion shall be privileged and not debatable. (3) Debate in senate.--Debate in the Senate on any spin-off legislation, and all amendments thereto and debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 25 hours. The time shall be equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees. It shall not be in order to consider any amendments which would cause the total amount of direct spending under the spin-off legislation to exceed the target set forth for the fiscal year under section 4 or includes provisions on a subject other than the levels of budget year amount or direct spending allowed by budget functional categories. (4) A motion to further limit debate is not debatable.--A motion to recommit (except a motion to recommit with instruction to report back within a specified number of days, not to exceed 3, not counting any day on which the Senate is not in session) is not in order. Debate on any such motion to recommit shall be limited to 1 hour, to be equally divided  between, and controlled by, the mover and the manager of the concurrent resolution. (5) Motion to proceed to conference in senate.--A motion to proceed to the consideration of the conference report on any spin-off legislation may be made even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to.  (6) Senate consideration of conference report.--Debate in the Senate on a conference report on spin-off legislation shall be limited to not more than 5 hours, which shall be divided equally between the majority leader and minority leader or their designees. A motion to further limit debate is not debatable. Debate on any debatable motion or appeal related to the conference report (or a message between House) shall be limited to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the mover and the manager of the conference report. (7) Request for new conference.--Should the conference report be defeated, debate on any request for a new conference and the appointment of conferees shall be limited to 1 hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the manager of the conference report and the minority leader or his designee, and should any motion be made to instruct the conferees before the conferees are named, debate on such motion shall be limited to one-half hour, to be equally divided between, and controlled by, the mover and the manager of the conference report. In all cases when the manager of the conference report is in favor of any motion, appeal or amendment, the time in opposition shall be under the control of the minority leader or his designee. SEC. 8. TARGETED SEQUESTRATION. (a) Application.--This section shall apply for any budget year only if a spin-off law as described in section 7 is in effect for that year on the date of the final sequestration report described in section 12. (b) Sequestration in Each Functional Category.--(1) The purpose of this subsection is to ensure that total direct spending for each functional category is no more than allowed for the budget year. (2) The amount to be sequestered for the budget year from direct spending programs in each functional category is the amount by which direct spending during the budget year results in a greater amount of direct spending than allowed in that functional category in the spin- off law. (c) Sequestration.--Within 15 days after Congress adjourns to end a session, there shall be a sequestration to reduce the amount of direct spending in the current policy baseline in any functional category by the amount specified in subsection (b)(2). The amount required to be sequestered from direct spending in a functional category shall be achieved by reducing each non-exempt direct spending account (or activity within an account) within that functional category by the uniform percentage necessary to achieve that amount. SEC. 9. COMPREHENSIVE SEQUESTRATION. (a) Application.--This section shall apply for any budget year unless a spin-off law as described in section 7 is in effect for that year on the date of the final sequestration report described in section 12. (b) Sequestration Based on Budget-Year Shortfall.--The amount to be sequestered for the budget year is the amount (if any) by which direct spending exceeds the cap for that year under section 4. (c) Sequestration.--Within 15 days after Congress adjourns to end a session, there shall be a sequestration to reduce the amount of direct spending in the current policy baseline by the amounts specified in subsection (b). The amount required to be sequestered shall be achieved by reducing each direct spending account (or activity within an account) by the uniform percentage necessary to achieve that amount. SEC. 10. EXEMPT PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES. The following budget accounts, activities within accounts, or income shall be exempt from sequestration-- (1) net interest; (2) deposit insurance and pension benefit guarantees; (3) all payments to trust funds from excise taxes or other receipts or collections properly creditable to those trust funds; (4) offsetting receipts and collections; (5) all payments from one Federal direct spending budget account to another Federal budget account; all intragovernmental funds including those from which funding is derived primarily from other Government accounts; (6) expenses to the extent they result from private donations, bequests, or voluntary contributions to the  Government; (7) nonbudgetary activities, including but not limited to-- (A) credit liquidating and financing accounts; (B) the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation Trust Funds; (C) the Thrift Savings Fund; (D) the Federal Reserve System; and  (E) appropriations for the District of Columbia to the extent they are appropriations of locally raised funds; (8) payments resulting from Government insurance, Government guarantees, or any other form of contingent liability, to the extent those payments result from contractual  or other legally binding commitments of the Government at the time of any sequestration; (9) the following accounts, which largely fulfill requirements of the Constitution or otherwise make payments to which the Government is committed: Administration of Territories, Northern Mariana  Islands Covenant grants (14-0412-0-1-806); Bureau of Indian Affairs, miscellaneous payments to Indians (14-2303-0-1-452);  Bureau of Indian Affairs, miscellaneous trust funds, tribal trust funds (14-9973-0-7-999); Claims, defense; Claims, judgments, and relief act (20-1895-0-1- 806); Compact of Free Association, economic assistance pursuant to Public Law 99-658 (14-0415-0-1-806); Compensation of the President (11-0001-0-1-802); Customs Service, miscellaneous permanent appropriations (20-9992-0-2-852); Eastern Indian land claims settlement fund (14- 2202-0-1-806) Farm Credit System Financial Assistance  Corporation, interest payments (20-1850-0-1-351); Internal Revenue collections of Puerto Rico (20- 5737-0-2-852);  Panama Canal Commission, operating expenses and capital outlay (95-5190-0-2-403); Payments of Vietnam and USS Pueblo prisoner-of-war  claims (15-0104-0-1-153); Payments to copyright owners (03-5175-0-2-376); Payments to the United States territories, fiscal  assistance (14-0418-0-1-801); Salaries of Article III judges; Soldier's and Airmen's Home, payment of claims (84-  8930-0-7-705); Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, interest payments (46-0300-0-1-401); (10) the following noncredit special, revolving, or trust- revolving funds: Coinage profit fund (20-5811-0-2-803); Exchange Stabilization Fund (20-4444-0-3-155); Foreign Military Sales trust fund (11-82232-0-7- 155); (11)(A) any amount paid as regular unemployment compensation by a State from its account in the Unemployment Trust Fund (established by section 904(a) of the Social Security Act); (B) any advance made to a State from the Federal unemployment account (established by section 904(g) of such Act) under title XII of such Act and any advance appropriated to the Federal unemployment account pursuant to section 1203 of such Act; (C) any payment made from the Federal Employees Compensation Account (as established under section 909 of such Act) for the purpose of carrying out chapter 85 of title 5, United States Code, and funds appropriated or transferred to or otherwise deposited in such Account; (12) the earned income tax credit (payments to individuals pursuant to section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986); and  (13) the uranium enrichment program. SEC. 11. GENERAL AND SPECIAL SEQUESTRATION RULES. (a) Permanent Sequestration of Direct Spending.-- (1) The purpose of any direct spending sequestration under this Act is to ensure deficit reduction in the budget year and all subsequent fiscal years, so that the budget-year direct spending cap in section 4 is not exceeded. (2) Obligations in sequestered direct spending accounts shall be reduced in the fiscal year in which a sequestration occurs and in all succeeding fiscal years. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, after the first direct spending sequestration, any later sequestration shall reduce direct spending by an amount in addition to, rather than in lieu of, the reduction in direct spending in place under the existing sequestration or sequestrations. (b) Uniform Percentages.-- (1) In calculating the uniform percentage applicable to the sequestration of all direct spending programs or activities under section 9, or the uniform percentage applicable to the sequestration of nonexempt direct spending programs or  activities within a functional category under section 8, the sequestrable base for direct spending programs and activities is the total budget-year level of outlays for those programs or activities in the current policy baseline minus-- (A) those budget-year outlays resulting from obligations incurred in the current or prior fiscal years, and (B) those budget-year outlays resulting from exemptions under section 10. (2) For any direct spending program in which-- (A) outlays pay for entitlement benefits, (B) a budget-year sequestration takes effect after the 1st day of the budget year, and (C) that delay reduces the amount of entitlement authority that is subject to sequestration in the budget year, the uniform percentage otherwise applicable to the sequestration of that program in the budget year shall be increased as necessary to achieve the same budget-year outlay reduction in that program as would have been achieved had there been no delay.  (3) If the uniform percentage otherwise applicable to the budget-year sequestration of a program or activity is increased under paragraph (2), then it shall revert to the uniform percentage calculated under paragraph (1) when the budget year is completed. (c) General Rules for Sequestration.-- (1) Indefinite authority.--Except as otherwise provided, sequestration in accounts for which obligations are indefinite shall be taken in a manner to ensure that obligations in the fiscal year of a sequestration and succeeding fiscal years are reduced, from the level that would actually have occurred, by the applicable sequestration percentage or percentages. (2) Cancellation of budgetary resources.--Budgetary resources sequestered from any account other than an entitlement trust, special, or revolving fund account shall revert to the Treasury and be permanently canceled or repealed. (3) Indexed benefit payments.--If, under any entitlement program-- (A) benefit payments are made to persons or governments more frequently than once a year, and  (B) the amount of entitlement authority is periodically adjusted under existing law to reflect changes in a price index, then for the first fiscal year to which a sequestration order applies, the benefit reductions in that program accomplished by the order shall take effect starting with the payment made at the beginning of January or 7 weeks after the order is issued, whichever is later. For the purposes of this subsection, Veterans Compensation shall be considered a program that meets the conditions of the preceding sentence. (4) Programs, projects, or activities.--Except as otherwise provided, the same percentage sequestration shall apply to all programs, projects, and activities within a budget account (with programs, projects, and activities as delineated in the appropriation Act or accompanying report for the relevant fiscal year covering that account, or for accounts not included in appropriation Acts, as delineated in the most recently submitted President's budget). (5) Implementing regulations.--Administrative regulations or similar actions implementing the sequestration of a program or activity shall be made within 120 days of the effective date of the sequestration of that program or activity.  (6) Distribution formulas.--To the extent that distribution or allocation formulas differ at different levels of budgetary resources within an account, program, project, or activity, a sequestration shall be interpreted as producing a lower total appropriation, with that lower appropriation being obligated as  though it had been the pre-sequestration appropriation and no sequestration had occurred. (7) Contingent fees.--In any account for which fees charged  to the public are legally determined by the level of appropriations, fees shall be charged on the basis of the presequestration level of appropriations.  (d) Non-JOBS Portion of AFDC.--Any sequestration order shall accomplish the full amount of any required reduction in payments for the non-jobs portion of the aid to families with dependant children program under the Social Security Act by reducing the Federal reimbursement percentage (for the fiscal year involved) by multiplying that reimbursement percentage, on a State-by-State basis, by the uniform percentage applicable to the sequestration of nonexempt direct spending programs or activities. (e) JOBS Portion of AFDC.--  (1) Full amount of sequestration required.--Any sequestration order shall accomplish the full amount of any required reduction of the job opportunities and basic skills training program under section 402(a)(19), and part F of title VI, of the Social Security Act, in the manner specified in this subsection. Such an order may not reduce any Federal matching rate pursuant to section 403(l) of the Social Security Act. (2) New allotment formula.--  (A) General rule.--Notwithstanding section 403(k) of the Social Security Act, each State's percentage share of the amount available after sequestration for direct spending pursuant to section 403(l) of such Act shall be equal to that percentage of the total amount paid to the States pursuant to such section 403(l) for the prior fiscal year that is represented by the amount paid to such State pursuant to such section 403(l) for the prior fiscal year, except that a State may not be allotted an amount under this subparagraph that exceeds the amount that would have been allotted to such State pursuant to such section 403(k) had the sequestration not been in effect. (B) Reallotment of amounts remaining unallotted after application of general rule.--Any amount made available after sequestration for direct spending pursuant to section 403(l) of the Social Security Act that remains unallotted as a result of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be allotted among the States in proportion to the absolute difference between the amount allotted, respectively, to each State as a  result of such subparagraph and the amount that would have been allotted to such State pursuant to section 403(k) of such Act had the sequestration not been in effect, except that a State may not be allotted an amount under this subparagraph that results in a total  allotment to the State under this paragraph of more than the amount that would have been allotted to such State pursuant to such section 403(k) had the sequestration not been in effect. (f) Child Support Enforcement Program.--Any sequestration order shall accomplish the full amount of any required reduction in payments under sections 455 and 458 of the Social Security Act by reducing the Federal matching rate for State administrative costs under the program, as specified (for the fiscal year involved) in section 455(a) of such Act, to the extent necessary to reduce such expenditures by that amount. (g) Commodity Credit Corporation.--  (1) Effective date.--For the Commodity Credit Corporation, the date on which a sequestration order takes effect in a fiscal year shall vary for each crop of a commodity. In general, the sequestration order shall take effect when issued, but for each crop of a commodity for which 1-year contracts are issued as an entitlement, the sequestration order shall take effect with the start of the sign-up period for that crop that begins after the sequestration order is issued. Payments for each contract in such a crop shall be reduced under the same terms and conditions. (2) Dairy program.--As the sole means of achieving any  reduction in outlays under the milk price-support program, the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide for a reduction to be made in the price received by producers for all milk produced in the United States and marketed by producers for commercial use. That price reduction (measured in cents per hundredweight  of milk marketed) shall occur under subparagraph (A) of section 201(d)(2) of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1446(d)(2)(A)), shall begin on the day any sequestration order is issued, and shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the reduction in outlays under the milk price-support program, that otherwise would have been achieved by reducing payments made for the purchase of milk or the products of milk under this subsection during that fiscal year. (3) Effect of delay.--For purposes of subsection (b)(1), the sequestrable base for the Commodity Credit Corporation is the budget-year level of gross outlays resulting from new budget authority that is subject to reduction under paragraphs (1) and (2), and subsection (b)(2) shall not apply. (4) Certain authority not to be limited.--Nothing in this Act shall restrict the Corporation in the discharge of its authority and responsibility as a corporation to buy and sell  commodities in world trade, or limit or reduce in any way any appropriation that provides the Corporation with funds to cover its net realized losses. (h) Extended Unemployment Compensation.--(1) A State may reduce each weekly benefit payment made under the Federal-State Extended Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 for any week of unemployment occurring during any period with respect to which payments are reduced under any sequestration order by a percentage not to exceed the percentage by which the Federal payment to the State under section 204 of such Act is to be reduced for such week as a result of such order. (2) A reduction by a State in accordance with subparagraph (A) shall not be considered as a failure to fulfill the requirements of section 3304(a)(11) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (i) Federal Employees Health Benefits Fund.--For the Federal Employees Health Benefits Fund, a sequestration order shall take effect with the next open season. The sequestration shall be accomplished by annual payments from that Fund to the General Fund of the Treasury. Those annual payments shall be financed solely by charging higher premiums. For purposes of subsection (b)(1), the sequestrable base for the Fund is the budget-year level of gross outlays resulting from claims paid after the sequestration order takes effect, and subsection (b)(2) shall not apply. (j) Federal Housing Finance Board.--Any sequestration of the Federal Housing Finance Board shall be accomplished by annual payments (by the end of each fiscal year) from that Board to the general fund of the Treasury, in amounts equal to the uniform sequestration percentage for that year times the gross obligations of the Board in that year. (k) Federal Pay.-- (1) In general.--Except as provided in section 10(b)(3), new budget authority to pay Federal personnel from direct spending accounts shall be reduced by the uniform percentage calculated under section 8 or 9, as applicable, but no sequestration order may reduce or have the effect of reducing the rate of pay to which any individual is entitled under any statutory pay system (as increased by any amount payable under section 5304 of title 5, United States Code, or section 302 of the Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990) or the rate of any element of military pay to which any individual is entitled under title 37, United States Code, or any increase in rates of pay which is scheduled to take effect under section 5303 of title 5, United States Code, section 1009 of title 37, United States Code, or any other provision of law. (2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection: (A) The term ``statutory pay system'' shall have the meaning given that term in section 5302(1) of title 5, United States Code. (B) The term ``elements of military pay'' means-- (i) the elements of compensation of members of the uniformed services specified in section  1009 of title 37, United States Code, (ii) allowances provided members of the uniformed services under sections 403a and 405 of such title, and (iii) cadet pay and midshipman pay under section 203(c) of such title. (C) The term ``uniformed services'' shall have the meaning given that term in section 101(3) of title 37, United States Code. (l) Guaranteed Student Loans.--(A) For all student loans under part B of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 made on or after the date of a sequestration, the origination fees shall be increased by a uniform percentage sufficient to produce the dollar savings in student loan programs for the fiscal year of the sequestration required by section 8 or 9, and all subsequent origination fees shall be increased by the same percentage, notwithstanding any other provision of law. (B) The origination fees to which paragraph (A) applies are those specified in sections 428H(f)(1) and 438(c) of that Act. (m) Insurance Programs.--Any sequestration in a Federal program that sells insurance contracts to the public (including the Federal Crop Insurance Fund, the National Insurance Development Fund, the National Flood Insurance Fund, insurance activities of the Overseas Private Insurance Corporation, and Veterans' life insurance programs) shall be accomplished by annual payments from the insurance fund or account to the general fund of the Treasury. The amount of each annual payment by each such fund or account shall be the amount received by the fund or account by increasing premiums on contracts entered into after the date a sequestration order takes effect by the uniform sequestration percentage, and premiums shall be increased accordingly. (n) Medicaid.--The November 15th estimate of medicaid spending by States shall be the base estimate from which the uniform percentage reduction under any sequestration, applied across-the-board by State, shall be made. Succeeding Federal payments to States shall reflect that reduction. The Health Care Financing Administration shall reconcile actual medicaid spending for each fiscal year with the base estimate as reduced by the uniform percentage, and adjust each State's grants as soon as practicable, but no later than 100 days after the end of the fiscal year to which the base estimate applied, to comply with the sequestration order. (o) Medicare.-- (1) Timing of application of reductions.-- (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), if a reduction is made in payment amounts pursuant to a sequestration order, the reduction shall be  applied to payment for services furnished after the effective date of the order. For purposes of the previous sentence, in the case of inpatient services furnished for an individual, the services shall be considered to be furnished on the date of the individual's discharge from the inpatient facility. (B) Payment on the basis of cost reporting periods.--In the case in which payment for services of  a provider of services is made under title XVIII of the Social Security Act on a basis relating to the reasonable cost incurred for the services during a cost reporting period of the provider, if a reduction is made in payment amounts pursuant to a sequestration  order, the reduction shall be applied to payment for costs for such services incurred at any time during each cost reporting period of the provider any part of which occurs after the effective date of the order, but only (for each such cost reporting period) in the same proportion as the fraction of the cost reporting period that occurs after the effective date of the order. (2) No increase in beneficiary charges in assignment- related cases.--If a reduction in payment amounts is made pursuant to a sequestration order for services for which payment under part B of title XVIII of the Social Security Act is made on the basis of an assignment described in section 1842(b)(3)(B)(ii), in accordance with section 1842(b)(6)(B), or  under the procedure described in section 1870(f)(1) of such Act, the person furnishing the services shall be considered to have accepted payment of the reasonable charge for the services, less any reduction in payment amount made pursuant to a sequestration order, as payment in full. (3) No effect on computation of aapcc.--In computing the adjusted average per capita cost for purposes of section 1876(a)(4) of the Social Security Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall not take into account any reductions in payment amounts which have been or may be effected under this part. (p) Postal Service Fund.--Any sequestration of the Postal Service Fund shall be accomplished by annual payments from that Fund to the General Fund of the Treasury, and the Postmaster General of the United States shall have the duty to make those payments during the fiscal year to which the sequestration order applies and each succeeding fiscal year. The amount of each annual payment shall be-- (1) the uniform sequestration percentage, times (2) the estimated gross obligations of the Postal Service Fund in that year other than those obligations financed with an appropriation for revenue foregone for that year. Any such payment for a fiscal year shall be made as soon as possible during the fiscal year, except that it may be made in installments within that year if the payment schedule is approved by the Secretary of the Treasury. Within 30 days after the sequestration order is issued, the Postmaster General shall submit to the Postal Rate Commission a plan for financing the annual payment for that fiscal year and publish that plan in the Federal Register. The plan may assume efficiencies in the operation of the Postal Service, reductions in capital expenditures, increases in the prices of services, or any combination, but may not assume a lower Fund surplus or higher Fund deficit and must follow the requirements of existing law governing the Postal Service in all other respects. Within 30 days of the receipt of that plan, the Postal Rate Commission shall approve the plan or modify it in the manner that modifications are allowed under current law. If the Postal Rate Commission does not respond to the plan within 30 days, the plan submitted by the Postmaster General shall go into effect. Any plan may be later revised by the submission of a new plan to the Postal Rate Commission, which may approve or modify it. (q) Power Marketing Administrations and T.V.A.--Any sequestration of the Department of Energy power marketing administration funds or the Tennessee Valley Authority fund shall be accomplished by annual payments from those funds to the General Fund of the Treasury, and the administrators of those funds shall have the duty to make those payments during the fiscal year to which the sequestration order applies and each succeeding fiscal year. The amount of each annual payment by a fund shall be-- (1) the direct spending uniform sequestration percentage, times (2) the estimated gross obligations of the fund in that year other than those obligations financed from discretionary appropriations for that year. Any such payment for a fiscal year shall be made as soon as possible during the fiscal year, except that it may be made in installments within that year if the payment schedule is approved by the Secretary of the Treasury. Annual payments by a fund may be financed by reductions in costs required to produce the presequester amount of power (but those reductions shall not include reductions in the amount of power supplied by the fund), by reductions in capital expenditures, by increases in rates, or by any combination, but may not be financed by a lower fund surplus or a higher fund deficit and must follow the requirements of existing law governing the fund in all other respects. The administrator of a fund or the TVA Board is authorized to take the actions specified above in order to make the annual payments to the Treasury. (r) Veterans' Housing Loans.--(1) For all housing loans guaranteed, insured, or made under chapter 37 of title 38, United States Code, on or after the date of a sequestration, the origination fees shall be increased by a uniform percentage sufficient to produce the dollar savings in veterans' housing programs for the fiscal year of the sequestration required by section 8 or 9, and all subsequent origination fees shall be increased by the same percentage, notwithstanding any other provision of law. (2) The origination fees to which paragraph (1) applies are those referred to in section 3729 of title 38, United States Code. SEC. 12. ESTIMATING ASSUMPTIONS, REPORTS, AND ORDERS. (a) Timetable.--The timetable with respect to this part for any budget year is as follows: Date:  Action to be completed: The President's budget submission. OMB publishes sequestration  preview report. Within 10 days after end of session. OMB and CBO issue final budget  year sequestration reports. 5 days later................... President issues sequestration order. (b) Submission and Availability of Reports.--Each report required by this section shall be submitted, in the case of CBO, to the House of Representatives, the Senate, and OMB, and, in the case of OMB, to the House of Representatives, the Senate, and the President on the day it is issued. On the following day a notice of the report shall be printed in the Federal Register. (c) Exchange of Preliminary Current Policy Baselines.--On January  15, OMB and CBO shall exchange their preliminary current policy baselines for the budget-year session starting in January. (d) Sequestration Preview Reports.-- (1) Reporting requirement.--On January 31, whichever is later, OMB and CBO shall each submit a sequestration preview report. (2) Contents.--Each preview report shall set forth the following: (A) Major estimating assumptions.--The major estimating assumptions for the current year, the budget year, and the outyears, and an explanation of them. (B) Current policy baseline.--A detailed display of the current policy baseline for the current year, the budget year, and the outyears, with an explanation of changes in the baseline since it was last issued that  includes the effect of policy decisions made during the intervening period and an explanation of the differences between OMB and CBO for each item set forth in the report. (C) Adjusting direct spending targets.--A determination of any adjustments to the direct spending targets under section 4 and an explanation of any adjustments. (D) Requirements for direct spending.--An estimate of the reductions in direct spending to be achieved for the budget year necessary to comply with the direct spending targets.  (E) Direct spending sequestration.-- Estimates of the uniform percentage and the amount of comprehensive sequestration of direct spending programs that will be necessary under section 9. (e) Official Sequestration Preview Report.--The OMB sequestration preview report shall be the official report for purposes of this Act. That report shall be set forth, without change, in the budget submitted by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for the budget year. (f) Final Sequestration Reports.-- (1) Reporting requirement.--Not later than 10 days following the end of a budget-year session, OMB and CBO shall each submit a final sequestration report. (2) Contents.--That report shall be based upon laws enacted through the date of the report and shall set forth all the information and estimates required of a sequestration preview report required by subsections (d)(2)(C) through (E). In addition, that report shall include for each account to be sequestered, the baseline level of sequestrable budgetary resources and the resulting reductions in new budget authority and outlays. (g) Presidential Order.--On the day that OMB issues a final sequestration report, the President shall issue an order fully implementing without change all sequestrations actions required by the final sequestration report that requires the lesser total amount of direct spending sequestration under section 8 or 9 (as applicable). The order shall be effective on issuance and shall be issued only if sequestration is required. (h) Use of Major Estimating Assumptions and Scorekeeping Conventions.--In the estimates, projections, and reports under this subtitle, OMB shall use the same economic and technical assumptions as used in the most recent budget submitted by the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code. CBO shall use the same economic and technical assumptions as used in the most recent report submitted by CBO under section 202(f)(1) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. SEC. 13. THE CURRENT POLICY BASELINE. (a) In General.--For any budget year, the baseline refers to a projection of current-year levels of new budget authority, outlays, revenues, and the surplus or deficit into the budget year and the outyears based on laws enacted through, and discretionary regulations promulgated as final by, the applicable date. (b) Direct Spending.--For the current year, the budget year, and each outyear, the baseline shall be calculated using the following assumptions: (1) In general.--Laws providing or creating direct spending are assumed to operate in the manner specified in those laws for each such year, funding for entitlement authority is assumed to be adequate to make all payments required by those entitlements, and funding for deposit insurance is assumed to be adequate to meet the costs of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 or successor laws. (2) Exceptions.--Except as provided in paragraph (3): (A) No program with estimated current-year gross new budget authority greater than $100 million is assumed to expire in the budget year or outyears. In carrying out the preceding sentence, expiring entitlement programs and programs financed by indefinite budget authority are assumed to continue as in effect just prior to their expiration, and other  expiring programs are assumed to continue with new budget authority projected as equal to budget authority in the last year for which budget authority is enacted. (B) The percentage increase for veterans' compensation for a fiscal year is assumed to be the  same as that required by law for veterans' pensions unless otherwise provided by a law enacted in that session. (3) Cutoff date.--Programs that expire on or before December 31 and that have not been reauthorized by the date of the final sequestration report are assumed to expire. If an  increase in veterans compensation has not been enacted by the date of the final sequestration report, it is not assumed. (c) Up-to-Date Concepts.--In deriving the baseline for any budget year or outyear, current-year amounts shall be calculated using the concepts and definitions that are required for that budget year. SEC. 14. RELATIONSHIP TO PAY-AS-YOU-GO. Reductions in outlays resulting in legislation enacted pursuant to section 6 shall not be taken into account for purposes of section 252 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, except to the extent necessary to achieve a balance in the paygo scorecard under such section 252(d). SEC. 15. JUDICIAL REVIEW.  (a) Expedited Review.-- (1) Any Member of Congress may bring an action, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, for declaratory judgment and injunctive relief on the ground that any order that might be issued pursuant to section 12 violates the Constitution. (2) Any Member of Congress, or any other person adversely affected by any action taken under this Act, may bring an action, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, for declaratory judgment and injunctive relief concerning the constitutionality of this Act. (3) Any Member of Congress may bring an action, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, for declaratory and injunctive relief on the ground that the terms of an order issued under section 12 do not comply with the requirements of this Act. (4) A copy of any complaint in an action brought under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) shall be promptly delivered to the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives, and each House of Congress shall have the right to intervene in such action. (5) Any action brought under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) shall be heard and determined by a three-judge court in accordance with section 2284 of title 28, United States Code. Nothing in this section or in any other law shall infringe upon the right of the House of Representatives to intervene in an action brought under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) without the necessity of adopting a resolution to authorize such intervention. (b) Appeal to Supreme Court.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any order of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia which is issued pursuant to an action brought under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) shall be reviewable by appeal directly to the Supreme Court of the United States. Any such appeal shall be taken by a notice of appeal filed within 10 days after such order is entered; and the jurisdictional statement shall be filed within 30 days after such order is entered. No stay of an order issued pursuant to an action brought under paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) shall be issued by a single Justice of the Supreme Court. (c) Expedited Consideration.--It shall be the duty of the District Court for the District of Columbia and the Supreme Court of the United States to advance on the docket and to expedite to the greatest possible extent the disposition of any matter brought under subsection (a). (d) Noncompliance With Sequestration Procedures.-- (1) If it is finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that an order issued by the President under section 12 for any fiscal year does not fully implement without change all sequestrations required by the OMB report, the President shall, within 20 days after such determination is made, revise the order in accordance with such determination. (2) If the order issued by the President under section 12 for any fiscal year does not fully implement without change all sequestrations required by the OMB report which is the basis for the order on the claim or defense that the constitutional powers of the President prevent such sequestration or reduction or permit the avoidance of such sequestration or reduction, and such claim or defense is finally determined by the Supreme Court of the United States to be valid, then the entire order issued pursuant to section 12 for such fiscal year shall be null and void. (e) Timing of Relief.--No order of any court granting declaratory or injunctive relief from the order of the President issued under section 12, including relief permitting or requiring the expenditure of funds sequestered by such order, shall take effect during the pendency of the action before such court, during the time appeal may be taken, or, if appeal is taken, during the period before the court to which such appeal is taken has entered its final order disposing of such action. (f) Preservation of Other Rights.--The rights created by this section are in addition to the rights of any person under law, subject to subsection (e). (g) Economic Data, Assumptions, and Methodologies.--The economic data and economic and technical assumptions and estimation of methodologies used by OMB or CBO in preparing any report issued under section 12 shall not be subject to review in any judicial or administrative proceeding. SEC. 16. APPLICATION. The application of provisions, procedures, and points of order under House Resolution 235, One Hundred Third Congress, agreed to August 5, 1993, shall not be effective for fiscal year 1995 or any later fiscal year. SEC. 17. EFFECTIVE DATE. Except as otherwise specified, this Act and the amendments made by it shall take effect on the date of its enactment and shall apply to fiscal years 1995 and subsequent fiscal years. <all> HR 4593 IH----2 HR 4593 IH----3 HR 4593 IH----4 HR 4593 IH----5 HR 4593 IH----6 HR 4593 IH----7
